## 1 History of Internet Policies in Business

### 1.1 Reason for Policies

The primary purpose for an internet usage policy is to protect the company and the 
employees. With cyber crime against businesses on the rise every year we should 
exercise common sense and a simple policy to limit our exposure and susceptibility
to these attacks.

The easiest way for an attacker to exploit company computers is with a computer virus.
Most computer viruses are transmitted through the internet, sometimes through email. 
There are in some cases, disreputable websites which when visited can install the virus
onto the computer. 

E-mail spam can sometimes render an email service useless. Soliciting unwanted emails 
is illegal. Some computer viruses can turn our e-mail servers into spam bots, sending
out thousands of messages to unsuspecting contacts which would seriously degrade our
business image.

E-mail spam rates for 2011 and 2012 are decreasing. Several products provide private
and corporate owners with the ability to filter wide ranges of spam and e-mail 
attacks. IBM's spam filter database contains more than 40 million relevant spam 
signatures. We employ a very sophisticated suite of tools to decrease our received
spam but ultimately it is the employee's responsibility to protect his or her account
from spamming services and most importantly not to forward or engage in spamming
himself or herself.

In 2012 IBM assessed that 50% of all malware links are placed on pornographic or 
gambling websites. Malware is short for malicious software; it is used by an attacker
to disrupt normal operations, steal information or infect adjacent systems. By limiting
our employees' exposure to potentially malicious content we can minimize inherent
threats to our systems.


### 1.2 Absence of Policy

In the absence of a policy, employees probably will not deliberately engage in 
damaging activities but we should encourage the right behavior. Employees would not
likely look at pornographic material while at work but they may check their bank 
accounts, or perhaps pay their bills using an online service. The problem arises when
another employee uses the same computer and sees private information that does not 
apply to conducting business. The company can be held liable for the actions of its
employees. 

The other damaging consequence because of a lack of policy is a productivity killer: 
wasting time. A 2010 Salary.com survey indicates that about 64% of employees waste
near an hour of work every day by idly surfing the internet. A quick reality check on
the math shows us that at an average salary the business wastes $456 per week for
employees to browse the internet, not including the opportunity cost.

Without computer monitoring we would not be able to discover network bottlenecks, 
determine which employee is downloading a very large file, which could disrupt the 
network or even discover an attacker using the system. The company could also be held
for damages if an employee willingly uses company computer equipment to commit a crime.

### 1.3 Examples

In 2009, LVRC Holdings filed a suit against Christopher Brekka, a former employee. 
Brekka had a very long commute so he frequently e-mailed company documents to his
personal laptop to do business. LVRC had no internal policy to govern the access or 
use of company computer systems.

After a number of sensitive number of documents were
transmitted to his personal computer and after his termination LVRC noticed that
Brekka's account was being accessed and sensitive company information was being 
stolen. LVRC is sueing Brekka in federal court; Brekka is claimed to have violated
the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.

In the case of LVRC, it is easy to see how the lack of a policy led to a very negative
consequence. The employee was not protected because he had no policy to secure his
right to use personal laptop for business. The company was not protected because
they did not specify, in writing, the terms of use for their documents, computer 
systems and client information.



